The name of that was very generic, Decompositions and Distances of Modules over RN.
Let me just, okay, space, always visible, where to go.
And that one probably be a bit bigger scale just because I mentioned like the final, the lifetime stuff.
This was mainly building on top of what?
Yeah, sorry, I'm just fiddling with Zoom, just a second.
Let me get back to my, I'm fiddling in the sense of I have to make your pictures stay up there
so that it doesn't disappear when I go to some other window.
Okay, let's see.
So I have to look at crude report maybe, is that the one?
Decomposition?
Probably.
Yes.
Yeah.
For the draft you think it should be a bit more detailed than that maybe?
A bit more detailed than this?
And I think that what we should have is sort of, the draft should contain, oh I like this actually, this is good,
but it should have, it's okay for it to have this stuff too actually, but I think that that should,
in the end I think that this stuff with the matching is going to be a second paper.
Yeah, yeah, I just mean like in terms of level of detail, just a bit more than this maybe.
Level of detail, I think we should try to include, try to include what's going to be in there eventually,
so have it be a formal definition of lifetime, formal definition of lifetime displacement,
formal definitions, potential definitions of lifetime distances that you can symmetrize,
you can take the max, whatever it happens to be, right?
Yeah, it's just sort of something so that people can get their hands on what lifetimes are and what lifetime displacement is.
Okay.
So that we can just hand it out to people and say, here's what we mean.
The reason why at least one of them wants this is because Herbert Adelsbrunner has a student who is going to decide
what to write her thesis on and it might be on related stuff and she wants to know what this lifetime stuff is all about.
Okay, sure.
So this is good news for us in some sense, right?
This means that people really want to know this and that this is good.
Yeah, and then also like motivations are we're thinking about this, obviously have the main results in there as well.
Right, yes, that's right.
So have whatever main results you think belong in there and, you know, something that doesn't have to be in final form,
it just has to be sort of presentable so that someone who wants to know what these things are
can actually look at the definitions for real and not just look at my slides, which have hopeless little detail.
They have nice pictures, but not such great detail.
Sure, okay.
Yeah, as soon as you can.
So, you know, I'm hoping that doesn't take more than, you know, a couple of weeks to...
Yeah, that's what I was thinking, a couple of weeks.
Great, a couple of weeks is...
Because I evaluated in my mind how long I think it...
And I said, Herbert, I told Herbert that probably once we talk about it within a couple of weeks, it'll be doable.
Yeah.
Herbert Edelsbrunner?
Edelsbrunner, yes.
The man, the myth, the legend himself.
Well, he used to work at Duke, you know.
Yeah, I'm aware.
Yeah, I'm not sure that he was ever here when I was.
I think I might have, like, maybe overlapped with him for a year or something like that,
because I didn't really know the area at that point.
But yeah, now I talk to him all the time at conferences and these things, and we communicate regularly.
Yeah, he's a good guy.
He hates algebra, actually.
I'm aware, when I was originally learning topological data analysis,
I read one of his papers on the Wasserstein distance being stable.
And you could definitely tell that he was skirting the algebra very much.
He was coming up with his own terminology and, like, really, really not going into the algebra there.
Yeah, I mean, the fact is, he thinks that he's not good at algebra.
And I think that what this means in the end is that the level of abstraction that he's willing to deal with
has a definite upper limit.
But, you know, what this means is that, you know, lifetime filtration?
You know, really, he doesn't want to do lifetime filtration.
But a student might want to do something related to this kind of algebra.
And so it should come from us, that kind of thing, yeah?
Yeah.
Okay, so what was going to be the, what's the sort of proposed content of this meeting here?
Yeah, so there's that.
I've been, like, rereading Jassy's paper, basically.
Like, taking notes on what I need to, what should be changed.
Like, there's some notation stuff we've agreed on that's different.
Yeah, the bracelet of brackets.
We should also, at some point, decide on, like, notation and nomenclature for, like, the shifts, slides, and rug pulls.
But I think that can be down the line.
Yes, that's a really good point.
We should decide on notations for that.
Yeah, we should decide on that.
Yeah.
Eric, do you know what those things mean?
Can you repeat that, sorry?
Shifts, slides, and rug pulls.
Rug pulls? Is that an actual thing?
I have not come across rug pulls.
We're going to make it into something.
Go ahead.
Yeah.
The first thing is, Eric, do you know these two notations here?
Sure.
K adjoin S and K braces.
Squiggly.
Yeah, squiggly.
Remind me of the braces.
So I was going to tell you this, Eric, it's part of my, so I wrote up notes in, like, you know, sort of on iPad.
I actually wrote up notes on the airplane to send you.
And one of them is that for indicator modules, we should write it as K squiggly bracket instead of K square bracket.
Okay, I was using K square bracket.
And I also completely took the entire blame for that because in my homological algebra paper, I used the wrong notation.
I really should have used squiggly brackets, and I didn't, and that was my fault, and it's wrong.
Okay, all right.
Yeah, I am using your homological algebra paper as a baseline for everything else.
Even right now, actually, what I'm going to do is I'm just going to get here.
I'm going to get to my notes, and I'm just going to send you the email now that has these notes.
Okay.
Keep talking, Ricardo.
Tell them about shift slides and rope pulls because I remember that conversation.
It was really handy.
Yeah, and I actually, I don't quite remember which is which, so I'm going to need to look up my notes for that as well.
Good, because I don't remember which is which either, but we had sort of good reasoning when we did that.
We did have good reasoning.
And so if you have it in your notes, that's great.
I should have it somewhere in a staff document.
But for the time being, you can just tell them what the three of them are, and then we'll figure out.
Yeah, anyway.
Yeah.
Is it here?
It's in the notes for Eric.
Oh, the very first slide, right?
Okay, squiggly bracket here.
There you go.
I found it.
I found it.
Okay.
So the current notations for each one, I'm going to put them in the.
You can share screen with them.
Or you can also share your screen.
It's up to you.
It's very brief.
I think I'll just do it here.
Kind of like this.
Okay.
So the first one is what I'm calling a slide.
These are the current notations.
Their subject should change.
The first one is what I'm calling a slide.
This is just the one where you.
So you map the vector V by.
Let's assume it's like homogeneous and you can extend by linearity.
Homogeneous.
Yes, that is correct.
Let's assume it's homogeneous and degree.
And then you just move it by like the structure map epsilon.
So the one that just.
Epsilon is like a vector, I guess.
You have to start off with what's what.
So V is a what and epsilon is a what.
Epsilon is a vector.
You should think of it as usually one, one, one, one, one, one.
But it can be any vector that you're going to shift.
Think of it as an arrow.
Okay.
Yeah.
Q plus meaning like the positive cone.
Okay.
It can be anywhere.
Q here is a partially ordered group.
Well, Q is a partially ordered group and then Q plus the positive.
Q.
Oh, okay.
I'm telling Eric because Eric is used to working with Q being a poset.
When we're saying here is that here we're working over a.
In the most generality, it could be like a it could be like a poset with a shift function or something like that.
And then epsilon is going to be the shift.
But for simplicity, let's just talk about Q being a partially ordered group.
And epsilon is an element in Q plus.
Okay.
Yeah.
So think of it as our end with one, one, one, one, one, one.
Yeah.
Anything in the positive or center part and, for example, would work.
Or actually the non-negative or.
The closed possible.
So, yeah.
So the first one here, you just take V.
So there's going to be you can think about it like being at a specific point.
And then they're like, if you just move here by epsilon, since it's going to be higher, then there's going to be a structure map there.
You just map it by that structure map.
So this is what we're calling a slide.
Okay.
Ah, okay.
I want to be clear what homogeneous vector means.
Yeah.
Our homogeneous vector means an element in ma for some a.
Oh, okay.
All right.
I was thinking sort of like in the coordinate in what's called projective coordinates, but that's not.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It just means an element in some graded piece of some graded module.
Okay.
Some Q graded module.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So it's basically it's only supported on one on one degree.
It's not supported on various degrees.
But you can extend this to be arbitrarily wherever you want by just white linearity.
So this is an important.
It's a class for some fixed parameter.
It's a homology class over some fixed parameter.
Yes.
Then there is the syntax with brackets.
That one's a bit more complicated to explain.
Basically, you can imagine taking the entire the entire like module and then you just like move it back.
Is that it?
I forgot to move it back or forward.
Yeah.
So in the usual notation, this would be M bracket epsilon.
So what it does is that if you take a module M back, take a module M.
Yeah.
How do you write the epsilon?
I have.
I can switch my keyboard to Greek if I want.
Oh, interesting.
I'm going to have to do it.
I'm going to do it by literally using my mouse to copy your epsilon and paste it into mine.
Yep.
Yeah, that worked.
That worked.
So M epsilon sub A equals.
Oh, boy.
M sub.
And then it's going to be epsilon plus A.
Yes.
Oh, OK.
OK.
OK.
That's interesting.
That's a shift and it shifts by the way downwards.
Your point of view looks like this.
Yes.
So if epsilon is this vector one, one, one, one, one, then it shifts it backwards by one, one, one, one, one, one.
And you can see that even though there's no there's no minus signs in there, this shift means that if you ask in.
You have to read that that really, really carefully.
Right.
So M sub M shifted by epsilon of A is M sub epsilon plus A, which means that it's up here.
So the original module M is this thing.
Right.
The module M, it's this degree.
So when you when you take when you when you take.
So but that's supposed to be M.
So this epsilon plus A sits up here, but it's supposed to be in degree A.
So it's moved back by anyway.
You have to figure it out.
It's really irritating.
No, but I think now that I see the the squiggly version of the expression, because I have a pretty good grasp of anyway.
Yeah.
And squiggly.
So I want to be clear.
The squiggly brackets there are really just to say it's tech notation.
Yeah.
Because I have to say the entire epsilon plus A is in the subscript.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
That's what I meant. That's what I meant.
It's I sort of can.
Yeah, I can.
I can see it.
I can see it somewhat.
And so just to be clear, when I in the second example, the bracket epsilon, if I have like,
let's say an abstract module like this, with like V being here, and then I shift it by epsilon out here, V shifts along with it.
So that's position is consistent relative like the lower edge.
Okay.
Doesn't move relative to the lower edge.
So V of epsilon.
So V of epsilon is the vector V that was in degree A and is now in degree A minus epsilon.
Yeah.
So it's basically the same thing.
It's just moving it around.
This is just from how interleapings are defined.
I think we can actually remove this entirely if we just allow maps with nonzero degree.
But the current literature doesn't do that.
So.
Oh, yeah.
Commutative algebra literature does it all the time.
Yeah.
The TDA literature does it from my understanding.
The TDA literature does not.
We need to convince them to allow us to do it.
Because honestly, the right way to do it.
This confusion is pretty much completely gone as soon as we allow that.
Yes, I know.
We only need one of it and then everything else.
Yes.
For what it's worth, the first example is a degree epsilon homomorphism or endomorphism.
Right.
And then the third case.
Ricardo, you should write up for this paper on lifetime modules.
It should be in your thesis somehow, but it should be in this paper.
We should introduce people to inhomogeneous homomorphisms.
And the module of all graded shifts of all homomorphisms.
So that we can start using this in the multi-persistence literature.
It needs to be there.
They are all over the place.
For any multi-persistence person who wants to read the algebra literature, they need to know what this is.
And so this seems as good a place as any to introduce it.
I use it all the time in my papers.
No one likes reading my papers because they find the algebra too opaque.
Which is so weird because it's so concrete.
But they're not used to certain notions like this one.
I like the algebra.
Yeah, good. Good, good, good.
So Jan Jandriziak, by the way, is one of these people who has his foot in both worlds and he totally gets the algebra.
It's so awesome talking to him. He's great.
You've said the same about Bjorkovic, right?
Yes. Yes. Bjorkovic knows his stuff.
Yeah.
I think Bjorkovic's take on algebra these days is this take on sort of multi-persistence algebra is the most nuanced,
sort of promising approach of anyone that I've seen from TVA.
I think he really gets the algebra. He understands what's trying to happen.
Yeah, so just the third notation there, the V parentheses epsilon as opposed to V brackets epsilon.
I have the definition in terms of the other two written there.
Well, basically, if you think again about the upset here with the vector here.
Let me think about this.
So you do this and then you slide it off. I think it's the same as if you slide it.
It's going to be the same the way they commute.
So basically, you're keeping this one fixed.
Let me say this in a language that Eric might get at.
So remember, if you have an element in a module and this element has degree A, right?
You can you can shift it up.
So you can multiply by X to the epsilon. What does that do?
It moves it up by epsilon. Yes.
So now you have a different element to the module.
It's an element now that sits in the same module, but it's moved up by degree by epsilon.
And now it's the image of this element after you've literally moved it up by the by the structure morphism that goes from here to there.
OK. Yeah.
Yeah. The problem is that in persistence, you might want to do that,
but you might want the results to sit in the same degree that you started it.
Oh, OK. Yes.
So how do you do that?
One way is to multiply it by X to the epsilon and then shift it back by epsilon.
Yeah. Another way is to shift it back by epsilon and then multiply it by epsilon.
So the rug pull is the one where you where you essentially you start with your element here, right?
You want it to land in this degree in this element, but back here.
Yes. The rug pull. I can see it. It's amazing.
I love it. It's amazing.
Yeah. What a name. What an absolute name.
Yeah. These are the names are in order of slide shift and you came up with this card.
I think shift is standard.
No, rug pull. I did not see rug pull.
It was in conversation and I don't remember which of us came up with it.
Yeah, I forgot.
It was during a meeting with Gart. Yes, that's right.
It was during one of our meetings and and and in the end we had this term and it's so the right term.
Yeah, that's pretty good because you're like you're basically you're just sliding out of the way,
but you're keeping it in the same place.
Yeah, the only thing it brings to mind is that magic trick where you have the whole set table.
Yeah, you pull the tablecloth out from under it.
Yeah. Yeah.
But the thing is that if we remove like the only reason we need this stuff is for it's for interleaving from what I can tell.
Something like that, yes.
And if we use like degree epsilon morphisms instead of requiring everything to be degree zero, then all we need is slides.
We no longer need shifts or rug pulls.
Yeah, that's right.
But it's nice to describe things in terms of shifts and rug pulls.
I mean, the shift is basically equivalent to just like the like you use a shift basis to emulate nonzero degree.
Yes, that's right.
In fact, exactly the definition of a nonzero degree homomorphism is a morphism of degree zero from N to a shift of N.
Oh, okay.
That's how commutative algebra, that's how it's defined.
Oh, okay.
That makes complete sense, yeah.
Well, you can also define it more sort of parochially, I suppose, by just saying that it's a homomorphism such that it takes an element of degree A to an element of degree A plus epsilon.
Yeah, that's what I was thinking.
But I also define it to be a homomorphism of degree zero from N to N shifted by epsilon.
Yes, expanding definitions, yes.
Right.
Okay, so that's the notation.
Maybe we should change it, especially the notation.
I'm not too happy with the rug pull one because it's quite similar to shift one.
But maybe that's just something you have to live with.
There's also an argument for not having that at all and just writing out the full expression every time, but that seems.
Yes, and it's going to be, I will leave it up to you for the moment because you're going to try to write things down.
And when you do, you'll figure out which notations are becoming really irritating.
Sure.
Okay.
Yeah, it's one of those things you just try it and see what happens.
And, you know, if it's not working for you, then go, you know, this is just annoying.
It's the same thing with the minus sign.
There should be a minus, you know, M shifted by epsilon should be M shifted by epsilon.
But it's not, it's M shifted back by epsilon.
That's because it's a minus sign.
And you can choose what to do with the minus sign, where to put it.
And sometimes it's annoying and sometimes it's not.
I don't think, I think that one would just like have to keep with what other people are doing and just like deal with the sign.
It makes like...
There's no question that this is the definition of M shifted by epsilon.
The question is whether we want to routinely think of M shifted by minus epsilon or not.
Oh, all right.
Because the answer is not.
I think it like, it makes sense to just define it in a way that it admits that.
But I think in practice that never shows up.
Okay.
Yeah, so that's the, that's the notation stuff.
Oh, right.
Eric introduced me.
Actually, last night, like, I saw your email.
I was getting dinner.
And then right as I'm leaving, coming back from my room, then I see Eric and then we talk about it.
And that's, that's why I, that's why I told you to like ask him if you wanted to show off.
But the, one of the things that we talked about then is one of the ways we want to sort of salvage the things with lifetime.
Stuff is by looking into how the, how the like the act, it actually works in practice.
So that how like people are actually using this stuff for real data sets.
And then let's see the exact wording here.
Formulates conditions under which the screening variants are complete when restricted to push forward measure.
Yes.
And so for that inch like understand how, how people are actually doing this stuff.
And he introduced me to this library called duty.
Oh, yeah.
Is it good?
Is it like, does it do the things you wanted it to do?
It seems like it does.
I haven't had that much time to look into it yet.
Because based on your like descriptions, I'm pretty sure it's exactly what you want.
From what I looked up, it doesn't contribute.
So that's something I need to look into to try to understand what they're doing.
And people also like multi-PERS.
I think they call it multi-PERS.
So multi-PERS is made to interface with Goody.
I think you heard about multi-PERS because of me, actually.
And the people at Nightsake.
Remember, I was just at Nightsake.
Oh, that's true.
Anyway, so multi-PERS is meant to interface with Goody as well.
There is probably overlap at some point, but I think Goody is more on the computational.
Before we encode things, before we process things.
And then multi-PERS is more for the processing.
So I think Goody is more so what you want to call it.
But you can check out multi-PERS as well.
Multi-PERS is more, I think, further along the pipeline.
Sure, I'll just write it down.
So there's that.
I've also been thinking about the other, just because I didn't have too much to think about in regards to that stuff.
I've been thinking about the other rich salvage it, which is attaching supplementary data to lifetime filtration so that it does become discriminating.
What I was thinking in that regard is that the, sort of the interesting thing for, at least in a discriminatory sense with this, is that it's when things are, like they geometrically would be a lifetime.
But algebraically, there's something that prevents them from being a lifetime.
I'm not sure what you mean by that. What do you mean?
So if we think back to the Luis example where you have the cube, right, missing the ends, do you remember the Luis kind of example?
Vaguely, yes.
Yeah, so in that case, if we don't, the one that has the multiplication by alpha and multiplication by beta, right?
Right, yes.
If we don't have those, if we have everything just being the identity map, then the entire module is a lifetime module.
And then you're basically, and then that works.
But when one of the multiplication, multiplication by alpha, or by anything that's not one, then it is no longer your lifetime module.
And that, and so that means that we lose a filtration.
There's one, a filtration that would have, like geometrically should exist because there's a map there.
But I like it supported as if it were a lifetime module.
But the algebra of the map prevents it from being a lifetime module.
Oh, I see, I see. It's not lifetime because the maps are at all constant. They're not all the same.
Yeah.
It's not connected, the morphisms aren't connected or something like that.
Yeah, something like that.
And so this means that we lose some, there's basically a filtration that would exist based on geometry, but doesn't exist because of the algebra.
And I think if we want to solve it in this way, we need a way to like keep that information of like, why does this filtration that should work not work?
Provide some way of like comparing those.
I see. I see. We may also want to just, I mean, include.
Honestly, a filtration is always going to be sort of short, exact sequence.
And then we could record which element in X it is.
So which, which extension of this?
In what sense is a filtration of short, exact sequence?
Well, you have a sub module and then you have a quotient module.
Right?
Oh, right. Sure. At each point.
We're only remembering what is the sub module, what's the quotient module.
We're not remembering what's the extension.
Ah, that might be, that might be something to look into that.
Right. So like, I mean, there's a sense in which if we just remember literally what the extensions are, then we can reconstruct the entire module.
Then it's an invariant because it gives you the whole module back.
Oh, okay. Maybe there's something you can extract from the extensions.
That's what I was going to say. But when you view it that way, it's like, okay, so then what functions on X are we interested in?
Right. We can take the zero function on X and then we just don't care what the extension is.
Well, we could take, we could take more interesting invariants of the X and perhaps get more information and sort of that.
We could sort of build up a theory of how much information do you want from the X, that kind of thing.
Yeah. So those are the three things I've done basically.
Cool.
I think that's clear thinking.
Derek, do you have anything to add?
I'm not the pro here, although I find the idea interesting and I think Goody is the program that should help you with this.
Yeah, I've seen that Goody is C++ with Python bindings. Would you plan on like porting it also to like Julia binding so you can interact with it?
No, my idea would be to port my thing to Python bindings.
Oh, okay.
Julia is my backend. Julia is my C++. I am not good enough to write my thing in C++, so I did it in Julia, which is more expressive.
Sure. And then you write Python binding, like do a Python binding.
Yeah, that's my plan eventually. I haven't done this before. I know there are software that does it for you, so I need to look into that.
Yeah, I'd hope there would be just a library that like converts NumPy arrays to Julia.
Something like that. And so basically your input is in Python and then you convert it to Julia and put that in.
Your output is in Julia and then converts back to Python and then you don't touch anything in between. That would be ideal.
Sure.
I do have something to add.
What?
Unrelated to this, but my example ran successfully, so the library is working.
Oh, good. Good.
There's a sense in which I really wish, actually I really wish both of you could be in Austria for this thing.
This thing that's at the end of March.
I could be in Austria. I just need to plan ahead.
It's during classes.
Yeah, I would need to plan ahead very methodically.
I mean, I can talk with my professors and see what we're doing, but that seems like especially because then it's also when I'm possibly going to be visiting grad school as well.
I have actually heard back from one of them.
And unfortunately, so University of Wisconsin Madison, I put up here the email.
They had over 800 applicants to the program, so they just preliminarily, like early, just like denied a bunch of people.
Including you or no?
Let me tell you, the reason why they denied you is because they think you're not going to go.
That may well be it, yeah.
At UW Madison? But that's not a safety school, so to speak, right? It's quite hard to get into.
Madison?
Yeah.
I mean, they think that Ricardo is going to go someplace better.
He very well might, but OK, I shouldn't be saying this because when I applied to undergrad, NYU did that to me.
This could backfire because it could be that all the better places think, oh, not quite.
Yeah, especially with as many applicants as everyone seems to be getting now.
Well, I'm sorry to hear, Ricardo. I think you're a very high quality applicant.
Keep in mind that these places always receive that many applications. This is not news.
OK.
Sure.
But they are forced, and Duke does the same thing, by the way.
We have explicit conversations about how good someone is and how likely they are to come.
And the fact is that if you applied to Duke, we'd look at your application calls.
Are you going to come here? Come on, let's kind of get into it, and then we'll name some other place.
No, yeah, I just, yeah, it was just a bit, because they sent it so early.
I wasn't expecting anything until late February, and then they sent it literally last week.
I was like, OK, well.
OK, well, again, I'm sorry to hear, Ricardo. I think you're a very high quality applicant.
I have no doubts that you're going to get in somewhere.
Yeah, I hope so.
Well, I mean, I told Ricardo something a little bit more realistic,
which is that there is no reason why he should be rejected from anywhere.
Sure, that's a good thing to say. My only worry for you, Ricardo, is you only apply to four places, so you are...
That doesn't mean I am not going to guarantee they'll get in somewhere,
because it can happen that the stochastics just work not for you.
Yeah, I forgot about this. Ricardo, you only apply to four places, so that is, you know, a worrying factor.
Is there a place that you want to go above everyone else?
Presumably MIT.
There is nowhere that I'm like, sir, do I want to go? But if I had to pick now, there is one that I'm going to go.
Which one?
Johns Hopkins.
Which one?
Johns Hopkins.
Write to somebody at Hopkins.
Emily Reel is actually going to be at Duke in like a month, maybe a month and a half or something like that.
No, she's coming on the 30th.
But write to somebody at Hopkins and say, look, if I had to pick today, Hopkins would be my first choice.
Let me tell you, they don't know that.
Okay.
All right, I'll write that.
Write an email, and you have to do it today, because these decisions are being made now.
And if you tell someone at Hopkins that if you were going to make a decision today that you would choose them over all the other places you apply, you should feel free to tell them what those places are.
You could tell them that you applied, but you could say, I applied to these other places, Berkeley and Harvard.
I don't know where you apply.
But then say, but if I had to choose today, I would choose Hopkins.
Then that will seriously raise the chance of you being admitted there.
It really does. It really does.
From everyone I've heard, everyone I've heard said that you have to play the game.
Yeah, you can't do that to every place that you apply.
But if there's one that you're willing to do it for, then it raises your chance at that place by a lot, because then they don't have to roll the dice anymore.
Okay, I will do that.
Pick a person that's sort of up your alley that you'd like to work with.
You could write them an email. It should be an email that indicates that you know who they are.
Yeah, I think it's an email because I've looked at some of her work before, like I read her book.
Actually, she based it on the reason I'm interested in Category Theory from one of her videos.
That's right. And you could say that. You could say, I know that you're coming to Duke in late April.
I'm talking late March.
But this means that I have to send this message now because it pertains to my application to Johns Hopkins.
And then say the thing about, you know, if today I had to choose one of all the places I apply, it would be Hopkins.
I don't even know what my disposition is. I don't know whether my application has been accepted to other places.
But if I could pick one place to be accepted, it would be Hopkins.
Are you fine with me emailing it to you first so you can proofread it?
Yes. Yes, you can email it to me first. Please do.
I will be as quick as I can. My schedule is off. So if you email it to me at 9 p.m.
I might not see it till, you know, four in the morning. Yeah.
Yeah, I'm jet lagged. I'm getting up really, really early.
Oh, yeah. You also have the jet lag to do it. But even when you are jet lagged, you also have.
Jet lag is perfect. Yeah, my schedule is terrible. But when I'm jet lagged, it's much better.
No, there's no question. My family likes to send me away for a week to Europe so I can come back and get up in the morning.
I remember during like 501, like one of the, I think, it was right before I think the second midterm.
I was working with other people in the homework. I was like, you know, sometimes I'm like, okay, we're not going to get this finished in time.
Let's send Azure an email to get like a couple hours extension.
And then immediately, like, it's like 1 a.m. We resented it like five minutes later and everything was fine.
That was great. Right.
Yeah, 1 a.m. was early. When my schedule was like that, 1 a.m. was early. I'm like, what time is it? It's like 4.
Yeah, I always try to like, sometimes it happens. I was like, okay, now that you got my schedule, I can order it.
Yes. Well, I do that by going, yeah. Actually, that's a good point I have to, I might enlist somebody's help.
I need to, I need to schedule for, for Math 403, I need to schedule a whole bunch of oral exams.
Oh, right. That's what I was talking about.
Does anybody, do you, Ben knows, I'll ask him to do it.
Oh, the oral exams. You're doing oral exams for 403. Oh, that's amazing. See, a little hard, a little hard for me.
I've done oral exams before.
Yeah.
Do 21 lends itself very well to in-class exams?
It does, because it's very, there are a lot of computational questions you can ask.
Okay.
This, this, yeah, this is what I'm doing, I'm doing this one because I cannot, there's just no point in grading written solutions to a, to a week-long take-home interview.
Sure.
Yeah, not with AI.
No, yeah, that's what I discovered in the class that, that you were in, right?
Ricardo wasn't the one that you were in?
In 403 last, last time?
There was one that had some, some AI issues, I think, and the answers were wrong.
Did I stand up in front of the class? Did I stand up in front of your class and say I know that a bunch of you used AI?
Uh, I think so, I'm not entirely sure. I think, yeah, I think a lot, yeah.
You were, you weren't one of those, so.
Yeah, I was not.
You don't remember that so well.
I do not.
But like, half the class was.
I've tried using, I don't know if I don't know how to prompt engineer, I've tried like everyone, so I've been like, okay, this is a homework I did, let's see how the AI fixed that, but it's just, I can't, I can't get it to do anything then, so I just.
I mean, I graded, there was, I can't tell you this.
I know what happens when AI, when AI does the entire, the entirety of midterm one, it got a 46 out of 100.
Okay.
All right.
Yeah, I think Dan has also been trying to like see how AI does when he's grading the homework, just to like.
Yeah, okay.
I'll ask him for help with scheduling, just, I've never used one of these, you know, sort of.
When to meets or whatever they're called.
Sign up genius or when to meets, I don't know, I haven't used these, I've never used one before.
Honestly, I've seen professors literally just post like a Google forms thing or whatever, have people like fill out when they're available and then just try to figure it out from there.
If it's not a big class, that's totally fine.
No, I can't do it that way, that's going to be too much work for me.
I want to just say the exams will all be on Monday from like, you know, noon until 4 p.m. and sign up in the slots.
Oh, sure, yeah, if you.
I don't have to do any work.
It's just that, you know, if somebody can't make it during those times, then I have to figure things out.
But assuming that each person can make it during that time at some point, then they have to figure out amongst themselves how they can manage to sign up.
Sure.
All right, I think that's I think that's about it.
We have only a couple of minutes left before we have the meeting.
Well, I have something to say.
Yes.
So I have an issue, which is I have learned a lot of my math writing more recently in sort of like in conjunction with how it was, how especially chat GPT does its own math writing.
So I asked you about that at our first meeting.
So.
Yeah, I wanted to mention this actually.
AI helped me with the skeleton.
And I quite like the way it does lists sometimes, but it often lists too many lists.
And there are.
But the outline was very AI driven in that sense.
I'm not a fraud.
If that's running through your mind, it's obvious that I couldn't possibly have written some of these things because it's like it involves knowledge that I simply doesn't have.
Yeah.
But and I'm saying this more broadly even maybe because I'm an ESL speaker.
I have this tendency to sort of like imitate the person I'm talking to.
So if I'm talking to.
Right.
I have that as well.
I don't know if it's just ESL, but at least.
But as I've used as I've like used chat GPT to learn things in the past, I've also sort of internalized some of its some of its wording choices a bit more like workflow pipeline.
It's very it's very deployment heavy and it's also very it's very it's very like business jargon.
Let's synthesize our.
I was going to use the word jargon.
It's very jargon.
And I don't like that much for that, but sometimes the jargon comes up with is just so good.
Sometimes it is, but sometimes it's it's it's it's identifiable.
So like, you know, one of the things that chat GPT does, if you ask it to answer a question.
I just remember the exam question I asked about cross audience except it was block matrices.
Right.
Yes.
Yes.
The answer is like two step flags.
You look at you look at those two subspaces in another.
Yeah.
And you get a block matrices and these kinds of things.
Yeah.
There's a there's a there's a generally theoretic way to do that.
It involves ladies subgroups, subgroups, subgroups, things like that.
The problem is that chat GPT knows everything.
Yeah.
Right.
And so when it gives you describe the answer this way, you unfettered uses all the mathematical terminology that it exists.
And it thinks that it's cool to use the right jargon for this.
The problem is that people in Math 403 don't know this jargon yet.
When they use AI to answer this question, it's obvious because they're using terms that they don't know how to define.
Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. No, that makes sense.
Um, like, you know, like it's, you know, what's a parabolic subgroup?
Yeah.
They might have heard the expression once, but they wouldn't be able to to to deploy it.
I don't think it probably heard it.
They shouldn't have heard it at all.
That's the point.
It's not in any of the books that we use.
It's not in any of our sources.
The only way to know that is to either take a course before to have gotten it from somewhere else.
Yeah.
No, no.
All of that makes sense.
Before, they've learned it in their own time.
Whatever.
Then they'll be able to answer your question during the.
That's my point.
Yes.
If they know what a parabolic subgroup is.
That'll be just the phone conversation you guys are going to have for like five minutes.
Right.
If they actually do know what a parabolic subgroup is, then it's like, OK, I guess for the purpose of this, you learn what a parabolic subgroup is.
I guess I'm OK with that, I suppose.
And then you're going to have like a brief conversation with them about it.
It's going to be fun.
And then you move on to.
Yes.
Yeah.
But I guess the the problem with me is that this is the the first larger math document that I've written in a bit.
And I'm like, oh, my God, I'm starting to I'm starting to sound like AI.
And then I and then I there are certain things were like, AI, this paragraph, how could I make it better?
And then I'm like, oh, no.
And it's all merging into each other.
So I think I need to like.
Well, I've drawn Eric when we meet, when we meet for, you know, for what we're meeting tomorrow.
Right.
Yeah.
We're meeting tomorrow.
And we can talk about, you know, which parts feel more like AI, which parts feel more genuine.
Yeah.
And I can tell.
Oh, I can tell, too.
My voice, my voice is disappearing.
Yeah.
Which is, which is, which is a little bit sad, but also a little bit good because the voice that I used to see was a little sort of.
To floor.
Yeah, I was.
I've always been a very verbose writer.
I've always been a very verbose writer.
A little bit more concise, which is good, but it's also got a little bit more.
For lack of a better word, impersonal.
Yeah, exactly.
I agree.
I agree with that.
I agree with that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So there are parts where I'm reading and going, yeah, I can really tell that Eric wrote this.
This is, this is what I want to see.
There are parts where it's just like.
Really, I could have written that sentence or even that paragraph or something like that.
Yeah.
My keyboard's on my lap.
No, no, but I understand.
And I fully agree with you.
I fully agree with you.
Writing this has been an interesting introspective moment because I'm like, where am I?
What is this?
And, and how, how much have I come to rely on AI to, to, to build my skeleton for me and everything else?
So this is, this was, yeah, this was an experience.
I am, I am interested in talking more about it tomorrow.
Do you have something to say before we go?
Yeah.
I was just going to say one thing that bothers me about AI is that now whenever I'm writing
something like, oh, it's an M dash.
I was like, wait, is this going to look too much like AI?
Yes.
I also start double, double guessing myself with those things.
I have totally heard, I've heard horror stories about those kinds of things about students
who learn how to write and they actually know how to write.
And then a teacher will look at their writing and says, oh, but you, this AI does that.
It's a horror story.
Yeah.
That's correct.
Like, I mean, would you want me to not use that?
That's how it works.
Yeah.
ABDAC is like super useful, like punctuation stuff.
Yeah.
They're super useful punctuation.
I use them, you know, preferably, certainly no more than once a paragraph.
Perfectly no more than once a page.
Yeah.
If you're using too many M dashes, it means that you haven't organized your thoughts properly.
Yeah.
Too many asides.
Or for doing asides.
Yes.
But.
Yeah, I was going to say at the time now, it's too fast forward, so you need to.
Yes.
I was going to go back and over to the other one.
Okay.
Lovely meeting.
I look forward to seeing more of your progress, Ricardo.
And also trying to figure out how I might be able to help, if at all, with my work.
But I think, well, we'll see.
And by the same token.
Visualization, that's going to be really helpful.
Yeah.
By the same token, you know, Ricardo, you might be able to help Eric do visualization stuff.
Yeah.
Exactly.
I might need some suggestions.
Because right now I don't have any visualization implemented yet.
If you need any input from my side, do you like the stuff I'm doing?
Or do you need like, as a user, what I'd be interested in?
Yes.
The user experience.
That's what I need.
Okay.
All right.
Talk to you guys later.
Ricardo, am I correct?
I cannot meet that.
What's your Tuesday afternoon look like?
Very busy.
I can't meet until like 4.30.
Yeah, okay.
So there's no chance that you're going to join with Eric.
So as far as I'm concerned, I'm happy to have both of you during this time slot at the top.
I cannot.
I have a class at 3.05.
Today, because of the stuff, the class is not happening.
Ah, right.
Good point.
Okay.
What about this half of that?
If necessary, I can show up like every once in a while during Eric's meeting.
When's your meeting on Tuesday?
It's Tuesdays at, what is it, 3?
2.50?
2.50 to 3.50, yeah.
Yeah, so I can occasionally show up to that.
I will need to miss complex analysis, but I'm not enrolled in that.
So it's fine if I miss it every once in a while.
Okay.
So just keep that in mind that this has been very productive.
I think that you two are working on separate things, but they complement each other extremely well.
They do.
I think that your skill sets complement your projects very well.
So Eric, when yours might be missing, Ricardo's really good at doing.
Yes, yes.
The visualization stuff, I'm particularly keen on picking apart Ricardo's brain eventually.
Right, right.
And the alignment project, you have software that can be useful for exploring that.
And for directing what we might actually want to prove.
So we can also think of just having meetings at some completely other time.
But I'm going to head over to the other meeting to have them.
Okay.
All right.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye, guys.
Thank you.
